Move /reference content from the Engine docs to the Platform docs (#257)
apollographql/apollo: docs/source/references/apollo-engine.md

---
title: Apollo Engine guide
description: Account management, data privacy, GDPR compliance, and other information about Apollo Engine
---

[Apollo Engine](https://engine.apollographql.com/) is our cloud service for schema management and performance metrics monitoring. Its foundation is built on two types of data input from servers: publishing schema introspections and sending traces of request execution. From those two data inputs we can provide rich schema usage insights, schema history management, schema change valiation, query usage insights, and more.

Engine's core schema management features are all availble in an unlimited capacity for free, and always will be. Engine's advanced features, like resolver-level query tracing, longer data retention, and third-party integrations are available with subscriptions to the Apollo Team plan.

> More information on pricing and billing can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/plans/). You can get started with Engine using any GraphQL server by visiting our setup guide [here](/docs/references/setup-analytics.html).

Reviewer: Let's remove the setup guide sentence and link to `/docs/references/setup-analytics.html` since it no longer exists. We can add it back in once we have the `Turning on analytics` guide completed.

When you sign in to Engine, you will have access to all the teams where you're a member of the organization on GitHub. You can use the organization account picker to switch between accounts. If another member of a GitHub organization you belong to has already signed up the GitHub organization for Engine access, you’ll have access to that existing account.

If you’d like to work with additional team members and you are the admin of a GitHub organization, simply add them to your GitHub organization. If you aren’t an admin, have an admin add you to their GitHub organization.

<h3 id="add-organization">Adding an organization</h3>

If you’re looking for a GitHub organization that you’re a member of and don’t see it in Engine, it’s likely that Engine does not have read access for that organization.

> If you want to Add or Remove an organization from Engine, you should manage those settings on GitHub. There, you will be able to Grant or Revoke access to Engine for organizations you can administer. For organizations you do not administer, you can Request access to Engine and the administrators will receive a request by E-mail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to add or remove an organization from Engine, you should manage those settings on GitHub. There, you will be able to grant or revoke access to Engine for organizations you can administer. For organizations you do not administer, you can request access to Engine and the administrators will receive a request by email.
```

Removed unnecessary capitalization

<h3 id="github-permissions">GitHub permissions</h3>

GitHub’s OAuth service is used for read-only information about organizations and users. Engine does not need access rights to your source code or to any other sensitive data in its login system.

If your Engine account is owned by a GitHub organization, then Engine will allow all members of that organization to access the account. As you add or remove team members from your Github org, Engine will know about that and accordingly update the authorization for those users.

<h3 id="other-logins">Support for non-GitHub login</h3>

Engine was built to mirror GitHub’s login and does not currently support other forms of login or team creation. Our current recommendation for teams who want to use Engine but do not use GitHub is:

1. Create a free GitHub organization (empty, public).
2. Add your desired team members to the organization.
3. Hide membership of the organization if desired.
4. Use this organization to collaborate on Engine.

<h2 id="services">Services</h2>

> A service in Engine is an entity that is provisioned in the Engine cloud service that your server can report performance metrics and schema versions to via an API key. The information reported by your server is processed and stored in the Engine cloud service and made accessible to you through the Engine interface.

Reviewer: The relationship between a service and your GraphQL API is unclear from this paragraph. Is it always a 1:1 mapping?

<h3 id="creating-services">Creating a service</h3>

> Services in Engine have globally unique IDs, so we recommend that you prefix your service ID with the name of your company or organization. To create a service, you will need to select an account for that service to belong to. All members of the account will be able to see the service’s data and settings options.

Reviewer: Do people actually read these docs when they create a service? We should display the hint `prefix your service ID with the name of your company or organization` somewhere in the UI if we don't already.

You can transfer services between any Engine account that you’re a member of. To transfer a service, visit its Settings page and change the “Endpoint owner” to whichever account you’d like.

<h3 id="environments">Managing environments</h3>

> Services in Engine represent different projects/applications. Environments within your application can be tracked using [schema tags] (//TODO(dman): find link and figure out this recommendation) and managed within a single service.

Reviewer: Let's try to make the relationship between a service and its schema tags super clear because I think it's going to trip a lot of people up.

// TODO(dman): figure out if we want to add more schema tag information here

#### API keys

> API keys can be added and removed form a service at any time. They are used to both send data to Engine (eg. server reporting configuration) and fetch information from Engine (eg. vs code extension configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API keys can be added and removed from a service at any time. They are used to both send data to Engine (eg. server reporting configuration) and fetch information from Engine (eg. Apollo VS Code configuration).
```

> You can manage your API keys on your service's settings page. It's recommended that you use one API key per function (eg. one key per data source) to have more granular control over how your Engine data is sent and accessed.

Reviewer: I totally did not know you could connect multiple API keys! I feel like we should highlight this recommendation more prominently somewhere.

Author: Yep! I don't think this is what we want people doing long-term, but it's definitely what we recommend people do to manage their access right now.
